#Stemming-the-Tide-of-Fake-News-about-the-COVID-19-Pandemic

While the world has been combating COVID-19 for over two years, there has also been an ongoing “Infodemic,” caused by the spread of fake news about the pandemic. Due to the rapid data sharing on social media, the impact of fake news can be quite damaging. Citizens might mistake fakes news for real news. Human lives have been lost due to fake information about COVID. Our goal is to identify fake news on social media and help stem the spread by deep learning approaches. To understand the different characteristics in fake and real news, we conducted behavioral and sentiment analyses between fake and real news regarding the COVID pandemic. We then further built detection models based on feature elimination, and we identified differences of model robustness based on selected features. We used the dataset by Patwa et al. (2021), which contains 4,480 real news and 4,080 fake news about COVID-19.

Our BERT model achieved state-of-the-art results compared with previous studies. Deep Learning models with feature elimination show differences between detection models’ robustness, though they are not significant. Further analyses show that real news posts are on average 40% longer than fake news posts. This implies that to recognize fake news, length can provide a hint. The concern index of fake news is greater than that of real news by 10%, which is statistically significant. Fake news contains more unique hashtags, while real news has more total hashtags. Fake news and real news prefer different hashtags. Hashtags in real news include inspiring and admonishing messages. Real news contains more unique mentions and more total mentions than Fake news. In fake news, top mentions are the handles of politicians and fact checking sites, while in real news, top mentions are the handles of public health experts and institutes.

I present the visualization in the file of Report_Fakenews.pdf
